[VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties.html) - Structure specifying physical device properties for functionality promoted to Vulkan 1.1

# C Specifications
The [`PhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties`] structure is defined as:
```c
// Provided by VK_VERSION_1_2
typedef struct VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties {
    VkStructureType            sType;
    void*                      pNext;
    uint8_t                    deviceUUID[VK_UUID_SIZE];
    uint8_t                    driverUUID[VK_UUID_SIZE];
    uint8_t                    deviceLUID[VK_LUID_SIZE];
    uint32_t                   deviceNodeMask;
    VkBool32                   deviceLUIDValid;
    uint32_t                   subgroupSize;
    VkShaderStageFlags         subgroupSupportedStages;
    VkSubgroupFeatureFlags     subgroupSupportedOperations;
    VkBool32                   subgroupQuadOperationsInAllStages;
    VkPointClippingBehavior    pointClippingBehavior;
    uint32_t                   maxMultiviewViewCount;
    uint32_t                   maxMultiviewInstanceIndex;
    VkBool32                   protectedNoFault;
    uint32_t                   maxPerSetDescriptors;
    VkDeviceSize               maxMemoryAllocationSize;
} VkPhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties;
```

# Members
- [`s_type`] is the type of this structure.
- [`p_next`] is `NULL` or a pointer to a structure extending this structure.

# Description
- [`device_uuid`] is an array of [`UUID_SIZE`]`uint8_t` values representing a universally unique identifier for the device.
- [`driver_uuid`] is an array of [`UUID_SIZE`]`uint8_t` values representing a universally unique identifier for the driver build in use by the device.
- [`device_luid`] is an array of [`LUID_SIZE`]`uint8_t` values representing a locally unique identifier for the device.
- [`device_node_mask`] is a `uint32_t` bitfield identifying the node within a linked device adapter corresponding to the device.
- [`device_luid_valid`] is a boolean value that will be [`TRUE`] if [`device_luid`] contains a valid LUID and [`device_node_mask`] contains a valid node mask, and [`FALSE`] if they do not.
- [`subgroup_size`] is the default number of invocations in each subgroup. [`subgroup_size`] is at least 1 if any of the physical device’s queues support `VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT` or `VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT`. [`subgroup_size`] is a power-of-two.
- [`subgroup_supported_stages`] is a bitfield of [`ShaderStageFlagBits`] describing the shader stages that [group operations](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#shaders-group-operations) with [subgroup scope](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#shaders-scope-subgroup) are supported in. [`subgroup_supported_stages`] will have the `VK_SHADER_STAGE_COMPUTE_BIT` bit set if any of the physical device’s queues support `VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT`.
- [`subgroup_supported_operations`] is a bitmask of [`SubgroupFeatureFlagBits`] specifying the sets of [group operations](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#shaders-group-operations) with [subgroup scope](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#shaders-scope-subgroup) supported on this device. [`subgroup_supported_operations`] will have the `VK_SUBGROUP_FEATURE_BASIC_BIT` bit set if any of the physical device’s queues support `VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT` or `VK_QUEUE_COMPUTE_BIT`.
- [`subgroup_quad_operations_in_all_stages`] is a boolean specifying whether [quad group operations](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#shaders-quad-operations) are available in all stages, or are restricted to fragment and compute stages.
- [`point_clipping_behavior`] is a [`PointClippingBehavior`] value specifying the point clipping behavior supported by the implementation.
- [`max_multiview_view_count`] is one greater than the maximum view index that  **can**  be used in a subpass.
- [`max_multiview_instance_index`] is the maximum valid value of instance index allowed to be generated by a drawing command recorded within a subpass of a multiview render pass instance.
- [`protected_no_fault`] specifies how an implementation behaves when an application attempts to write to unprotected memory in a protected queue operation, read from protected memory in an unprotected queue operation, or perform a query in a protected queue operation. If this limit is [`TRUE`], such writes will be discarded or have undefined values written, reads and queries will return undefined values. If this limit is [`FALSE`], applications  **must**  not perform these operations. See [[memory-protected-access-rules]]() for more information.
- [`max_per_set_descriptors`] is a maximum number of descriptors (summed over all descriptor types) in a single descriptor set that is guaranteed to satisfy any implementation-dependent constraints on the size of a descriptor set itself. Applications  **can**  query whether a descriptor set that goes beyond this limit is supported using [`get_descriptor_set_layout_support`].
- [`max_memory_allocation_size`] is the maximum size of a memory allocation that  **can**  be created, even if there is more space available in the heap.
If the [`PhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties`] structure is included in the [`p_next`] chain of the
[`PhysicalDeviceProperties2`] structure passed to
[`get_physical_device_properties2`], it is filled in with each
corresponding implementation-dependent property.These properties correspond to Vulkan 1.1 functionality.The members of [`PhysicalDeviceVulkan11Properties`] have the same values
as the corresponding members of [`PhysicalDeviceIdProperties`],
[`PhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties`],
[`PhysicalDevicePointClippingProperties`],
[`PhysicalDeviceMultiviewProperties`],
[`PhysicalDeviceProtectedMemoryProperties`], and
[`PhysicalDeviceMaintenance3Properties`].
## Valid Usage (Implicit)
-  [`s_type`] **must**  be `VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PHYSICAL_DEVICE_VULKAN_1_1_PROPERTIES`

# Related
- [`crate::vulkan1_2`]
- [`Bool32`]
- [`DeviceSize`]
- [`PointClippingBehavior`]
- [`ShaderStageFlags`]
- [`StructureType`]
- [`SubgroupFeatureFlags`]

# Notes and documentation
For more information, see the [Vulkan specification](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html)
This documentation is generated from the Vulkan specification and documentation.
The documentation is copyrighted by *The Khronos Group Inc.* and is licensed under *Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International*.
his license explicitely allows adapting the source material as long as proper credit is given.
        