[VK_EXT_display_control](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_EXT_display_control.html) - device extension

# Description
This extension defines a set of utility functions for use with the
`[`khr_display`]` and `[`khr_display_swapchain`]` extensions.

# Registered extension number
92

# Revision
1

# Dependencies
- Requires Vulkan 1.0
- Requires `[`ext_display_surface_counter`]`
- Requires `[`khr_swapchain`]`

# Contacts
- James Jones [cubanismo](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs/issues/new?body=[VK_EXT_display_control] @cubanismo%0A<<Here describe the issue or question you have about the VK_EXT_display_control extension>>)

# New commands
- [`display_power_control_ext`]
- [`get_swapchain_counter_ext`]
- [`register_device_event_ext`]
- [`register_display_event_ext`]

# New structures
- [`DeviceEventInfoEXT`]
- [`DisplayEventInfoEXT`]
- [`DisplayPowerInfoEXT`]
- Extending [`SwapchainCreateInfoKHR`]:  - [`SwapchainCounterCreateInfoEXT`]

# New enums
- [`DeviceEventTypeEXT`]
- [`DisplayEventTypeEXT`]
- [`DisplayPowerStateEXT`]

# New constants
- `VK_EXT_DISPLAY_CONTROL_EXTENSION_NAME`
- `VK_EXT_DISPLAY_CONTROL_SPEC_VERSION`
- Extending [`StructureType`]:  - `VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DEVICE_EVENT_INFO_EXT`  - `VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DISPLAY_EVENT_INFO_EXT`  - `VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DISPLAY_POWER_INFO_EXT`  - `VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_SWAPCHAIN_COUNTER_CREATE_INFO_EXT`

# Known issues & F.A.Q.
1) Should this extension add an explicit “WaitForVsync” API or a fence
signaled at vsync that the application can wait on? **RESOLVED** : A fence.
A separate API could later be provided that allows exporting the fence to a
native object that could be inserted into standard run loops on POSIX and
Windows systems.2) Should callbacks be added for a vsync event, or in general to monitor
events in Vulkan? **RESOLVED** : No, fences should be used.
Some events are generated by interrupts which are managed in the kernel.
In order to use a callback provided by the application, drivers would need
to have the userspace driver spawn threads that would wait on the kernel
event, and hence the callbacks could be difficult for the application to
synchronize with its other work given they would arrive on a foreign thread.3) Should vblank or scanline events be exposed? **RESOLVED** : Vblank events.
Scanline events could be added by a separate extension, but the latency of
processing an interrupt and waking up a userspace event is high enough that
the accuracy of a scanline event would be rather low.
Further, per-scanline interrupts are not supported by all hardware.

# Version history
- Revision 1, 2016-12-13 (James Jones)  - Initial draft

# Other information
* 2016-12-13
* No known IP claims.
*   - Pierre Boudier, NVIDIA  - James Jones, NVIDIA  - Damien Leone, NVIDIA  - Pierre-Loup Griffais, Valve  - Daniel Vetter, Intel

# Related
- [`DeviceEventInfoEXT`]
- [`DeviceEventTypeEXT`]
- [`DisplayEventInfoEXT`]
- [`DisplayEventTypeEXT`]
- [`DisplayPowerInfoEXT`]
- [`DisplayPowerStateEXT`]
- [`SwapchainCounterCreateInfoEXT`]
- [`display_power_control_ext`]
- [`get_swapchain_counter_ext`]
- [`register_device_event_ext`]
- [`register_display_event_ext`]

# Notes and documentation
For more information, see the [Vulkan specification](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html)
This documentation is generated from the Vulkan specification and documentation.
The documentation is copyrighted by *The Khronos Group Inc.* and is licensed under *Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International*.
his license explicitely allows adapting the source material as long as proper credit is given.
        